my name is ELISA Hutchison I'm with
Quicktime product marketing it's my
great pleasure today to have two
speakers for you we have goodra Negar
the director of communications for a CMC
graph and we also have Dave Berggren
director of technical operations for
soma media so I'd like to ask if we
could hold all of our questions till the
end and we'll do a short question and
answer and with that I invited Gudrun up
on this to the stage
[Applause]
[Music]
Oh
[Applause]
[Music]
good morning thanks for joining us this
morning again my name is gudren enger
i'm the ACM SIGGRAPH director for
communications that is my volunteer
position at a CMC graph for my day job I
work at Stanford University
and I'm here today to tell you just a
little bit let me get to my slide there
my slide I have three points today I
someone tell you a little bit about our
organization I want to tell you why we
chose some of media to do our product
and what our plans are for 2004 and then
I'm going to turn it over today that
he's going to give you the technical
background of the product because that's
of course why you're here a CMC graph
for those of you don't know is a
professional Computer Society it stands
for the Association computer machinery
special interest group computer graphics
interactive techniques we are a
volunteer run organization with about
6500 members the majority of our members
are extremely technical they come from
they are researchers they come from
industry and education one of our events
every year is our annual conference
which is typically held the end of July
beginning of August we have anywheres
from 20,000 to 50,000 attendees at this
conference the other events and
activities that we do as part of our
Association include chapters educators
program symposia and other co-located
events the annual conference is our
biggest program but it is not you know
it's not our only program but it is
where we have the most of
ability this year's conference will be
in Los Angeles the second week of August
we have technical programs which include
papers panels courses sketches which are
short innovative new research and
special sessions we also have a keynote
and awards ceremony in addition to the
technical part of the conference we also
have an art show and educators program
the electronic theatre and computer
animation festival which the clip we
just showed you from that and of course
in a large exhibit hall so one of our
our main goals we we do we try to do a
membership survey every couple of years
and one of the things that was
continually coming out in the membership
survey was that our members wanted to
see more content from the conference and
have it accessible online and so we over
the past three years 2001 2002 2003
we've been doing pilot experiments to
see the best way to capture that content
the best way to deliver it how to put it
online how to keep it safe all these
kind of things
last year we teamed up with some emedia
to capture a small portion of our
conference basically that all the
technical content that was in two of the
largest rooms at the conference that
included most of the papers a couple
courses some sketches and a couple
special sessions this product proved to
be very successful with our membership
we we had originally anticipated that we
would just offer it online and we
decided someone was pushing really hard
to get us to do a DVD product of it and
the executive committee of ACM SIGGRAPH
was not so sure but in the end we
decided to do the DVD in addition to the
online streaming application and the DVD
sold really well at the conference it
sold really well after the conference
we've probably had more interest
generated about the DVD than the online
streaming version so we're really
pleased with how that's worked in the
future though we do hope to you know we
we plan to continually offer both
because ACM has a
components called the digital library
and all of our content from the
conference goes into the digital library
so the OSA from soma will go in there as
well it's just another member benefit
that we're pleased to offer the reason
we chose some is the solution that they
offer is really cross-platform it's not
browser dependent which a lot of the
other solutions out there are it works
well on Macs and PCs we have a large Mac
population highly technical users there
a lot of the creative folks use it as
well as a lot of the researchers and
technicians it's a flexible system by
offering the DVD and the OS a we were
able to allow people to take it on the
road with them as well as sit and use it
in their office and overall we're just
really pleased with how it turned out
our plans for 2004 are to expand the
content capture we plan to capture all
of the technical content at the
conference so that's all the papers
courses panels sketches special sessions
and it's in ten rooms it's approximately
300 contributors with 250 to 300 hours
of video and PowerPoint presentations
the other thing that we're doing this
year is we're only going to capture
video in the two largest rooms for the
other smaller rooms we're going to do
just a head shot with the slides and
audio so I now want to turn it over to
Dave Bergen who will explain exactly how
it was accomplished thanks
[Applause]
thank you very much good Hren
ELISA
for the past several years Apple
computer has recorded the Proceedings of
its Worldwide Developers Conference on
DVD ROM in the lab when did it be great
if every single conference we attended
would also be recorded if that were the
case we would not miss a keynote speaker
we would not miss a single session we're
able to see the session we wish and see
it any number of times we want we we
would be able to instantaneously jump to
the presentation we want to see to that
particular slide we want to study and
we'd be able to review the material
sufficiently to absorb the knowledge
being disseminated we would move our
exposure to the material from the level
of awareness to the level of
comprehension this ability would allow
us to jumpstart our research in our
respective areas of interest this
newfound ability would also allow our
colleagues who may not be able to attend
the conference the opportunity to share
in the knowledge being disseminated at
the conference Souma media specialist
--is in creating knowledge dissemination
solutions to help organizations
distribute their content beyond the
walls of the conference center in 2003
ACM SIGGRAPH hired someone media to
record a portion of their conference on
two DVD ROM and the web this year we're
recording the whole SIGGRAPH 2004
conference and also putting it on DVD
ROM in the web today I'm excited to be
here to present the process of creating
the 2003 DVD ROM and our online
streaming application or as we refer to
the OSA okay so here's the agenda for
this morning I'll briefly talk about
someone media our company the benefits
to conference recording what you'll
learn in this session and then we'll go
in-depth on the case study for the ACM
SIGGRAPH DVD rom and OSA then we'll talk
about the technology framework the
technologies we used in the workflow the
improvements that we're going to
introduce in 2004 and then I'll conclude
and
as time for some questions so some media
specializes in knowledge dissemination
solutions we work with the organization
to come up with a custom custom solution
for them we provide complete end-to-end
solutions starting with the logistics
from from pre-production all the way to
delivery we handle the speaker
permission forms we capture the content
we compress it for DVD DVD ROM or the
web we author the content we create the
interface do all the design and the
packaging and we do the sales and
marketing including all the print
materials and having a sales booth at
the conference including a sales team so
here are some of the benefits obviously
it's recording the conference is a great
way to create an organized archive of
that conference currently right now
there are I think eight other
presentations going on so you because
this conference is being recorded you
know you'll have access to the other
conference that they offer other
presentations as well when it's
available online or on dvd-rom people
that couldn't attend a conference can
still participate and actually see the
content that was that was presented at
the conference a huge benefit also is
being able to watch it on your own time
this is great I mean you put pop it into
your computer you go online on the
internet you choose to see what is
choose to watch the presentations when
you want to watch them and finally a
recording a conference can be a general
revenue generating source for conference
organizers kind of can help to offset
the expenses related to actually
recording the conference so what you'll
learn in this session is our knowledge
dissemination solution that we came up
with for SIGGRAPH working with them you
also will talk about capturing content
efficiently how to avoid the bottlenecks
and developing a workflow with your
software and the technology that you're
going to use to develop the project so
here we're going to go in-depth right
now onto the case study for the ACM
SIGGRAPH 2003 conference present
patience so at SIGGRAPH 2003 there were
some physical constraints we weren't
recording the whole conference we were
recording only two presentation rooms
the main two presentation rooms which
included most of all the paper sessions
some of the courses it was five days of
recording and this resulted in about 800
gigabytes of video that was digitized on
the fly at the conference we also
captured over 40 gigabytes of PowerPoint
presentations and extra videos including
101 total PowerPoint presentations and
140 extra videos so what we delivered
was over 62 hours of video on two DVDs
115 presentations that's included over
4,000 synchronized slides and 140 of
those videos were synchronized with
their PowerPoint presentations so we had
a two disc DVD ROM set the first disc
was the papers disc it was on a nine gig
DVD ROM the second disc included the
keynote the courses the special sessions
and the sketches and that was actually
on a a 4.7 gig DVD ROM and then finally
we had created the online streaming
application so we captured 78 out of the
81 paper presentations I believe the
three presentations we didn't capture
were due to copyright copyright problems
that we weren't allowed to record them
we captured the keynote the four court
record for courses that were presented
in in the the two rooms we recorded for
the special sessions and one sketch so
these were the technical requirements
for producing this product but we had to
come up with a cost-effective solution
with a low sale price the price of the
DVD it was $79 for for non-members and
$59 per member so we had to keep it as a
costs low
it had to be cross-platform so it had to
work seamlessly on a Mac and a Windows
platform had to work also on the
internet and DVD ROM another important
criteria is the slides had to be legible
so the president
patience screen when I'll show you in a
few minutes had to be big enough so that
you can read all of the all of the text
displayed in the PowerPoint we also
include a chapter list I will go through
what the chapter list is it basically
divides the presentation allows you to
navigate the presentation by the slide
titles so each presentation is divided
into their slide titles and you can jump
to any part of the presentation
seamlessly we had to include as many
extra videos in demo SIGGRAPH shows a
lot of demos kind of similar to here at
the at this conference where they show a
lot of different types of demos of new
technologies and everything had to be
synchronized the final requirement we
actually there was already a vcruz in
the two rooms and we had to work with
their technology and find a way to link
that to ours our setup now we also
handled the sales and marketing so we
included all the marketing materials
this included flyers that we that were
in all of the the conference bags
posters we had two booths at that
conference and a sales team we worked
with ACM SIGGRAPH to come up with an
online ordering system and we had a we
have a website with an online working
demo of the product now we also have to
deal with the speaker related issues
which meant collecting all the speaker
permission forms since it had not been
recorded speakers had to be contacted
and we had to record we had to collect
all of their their speaker permission
forms collect also their slides all
their extra videos and demos so we set
up an FTP site for them to upload their
information we also had to include we
had to remove the copyrighted images and
sounds a lot of presentations at
SIGGRAPH refer to films movies and a lot
of times you don't have permission to
actually you can show it at the
conference but you can't actually show
it or record it for the DVD
okay so let's move to the demo actually
can we have the other demo the one on
the the g5 okay so this is the papers
disk and I'll go through the interface a
little bit we had to develop every year
SIGGRAPH I guess they come up with a
design for the conference with graphics
and logos in certain fonts and styles we
created an interface that worked with
with their design requirements we also
wanted to create an interface that was
easy on your eyes oh because if you're
going to watch a presentation that's 25
30 minutes long you don't really want
something you want something that's very
easy to look at we developed the
interface like a player so you can
easily move through you can easily
select any presentation by their event
here it's the papers disc and each paper
topic we divided it by day so you have
Monday July 28th and if you scroll down
you go all the way to Thursday and these
are each of the session titles so if you
click on a session title you'll get
selected there are four presentations
that were that were presented during
that session and you'll see the speaker
as a speaker pick and they're titled
their talk so you can click on will
click on the Veck so your video plays
here and your PowerPoint presentations
are here so it's fairly large screen
size and just to begin you simply press
play I start by showing you four
examples of what we were able to achieve
using our technique here's an image of
two water leaves that we found on the
web so you see it's all completely
synchronized it'll keep switching the
switching the slide throughout the
presentation
this presentation also includes some of
the demos and animations this one is
showing an animation so we integrated it
and synchronized it inside the
presentation now they mentioned before
this is the chapter list so you click on
it and you'll notice if you notice in
the scrubber you're actually moving
through the presentation all by there
slide titles so here's the thing on the
patch placement and here's another video
that was included in the presentation
okay well select another topic now as I
mentioned before we had copyright issues
that we had to deal with this individual
Alice Scheffer she actually had a
picture of Madonna that was taken from
the magazine so what we did was right
over here we blocked it out we had to do
that on a number of presentations where
there was images that had copyright
issues I'll show you another so I
selected shadows the paper topic and the
title of this talk was a geometry based
soft shadows you'll see the slides are
also this one's all everything's in sync
this one also included an animation so
ever speakers provided us animations and
demos we included them
now move to another topic on Thursday so
they get my control back
this one actually the individual
included a quick time vr he sent it to
us he probably didn't think we would
actually include it in the presentation
but we actually did
here's his full QuickTime VR and you can
actually move around move around the
space that he had said he had given us
I'll show you a final
so any video that we were able to
include we were able we put it in we
compressed it and we synched it with
their PowerPoint presentations can we
switch to the other demo machine okay
good okay so I'll show you the keynote
because I'm going to talk a little bit
about it later at this moment it's my
very great pleasure to welcome Anthony
Lazenby I said graft 2003 now so he also
really animation enables us to go beyond
this and he had many animations
throughout his presentation look you'll
see the side in the video is about three
is 320 by 240 the size with PowerPoint
is up in 548 5 more 11 so fairly
animation large size when I show you the
OS a little later the video liberal
smaller but the powerpoints live Phil
because it still be quite large ship in
the 3d hyperbolic space now this new
technique we call conformal Jim now this
presentation and exposure look you that
minute to make it here by agreement just
to show you that some of them included a
lot of code well we wanted to make sure
that people can read the code so the
video had to be the video presentation
screen had to be large enough so that
people could clearly see what the
speaker was talking about and I'll
quickly move on to really interesting
and interesting and talk
this was a special session that included
a demonstration of a robot that Sony was
developing and loudly so this was right
live at the conferences over the little
fellas and his that his the he actually
does it performs a dance during the
during the car during the presentation
I'd love to know and this song that he
used was copyrighted and so Massa he doe
contacted us and said well we could show
the video but we can't show the song so
we actually went through the video and
muted out the the dance sequence just to
just be so all through this the audio is
muted out but you get still see what was
shown at the conference the robot was
actually interpreting a song so it was
coming up with the dance moves as it
wasn't a pre-programmed thing it was
actually coming up with the dances
according to the songs beat now I'll
show you a last demo with the disc okay
so the quality quite excellent
this is a den of the promo for the NHL
me le King okay let's go back to the
slides and let's see how we put this all
together okay so these were the
challenges the first one is how to
digitize live analogue feeds to hard
drives and tapes then how to compress
800 gigabytes to less than 17 gigabytes
because we figured at the time that we
were going to put it on to 9 gig DVDs we
actually got it down to 11 so that's why
we had one 9 gig and 1.1 44.7 gig DVD
next really large challenge was
synchronizing 4,000 slides with their
videos and then synchronizing the 140
videos with their slides now the
conference was at the end of July we did
about about a month six weeks of work
pre-production before the conference
getting speaker permissions and doing
basically most of the authoring and
collecting the slides we had a deadline
in October we actually finished work on
the product October 8 we had sent it to
the DVD manufacturer unfortunately DVD
manufacturer took a lot longer and we
ended up delivering it in November
not in October so here's the technology
framework everything begins and ends
with basically with authoring we started
building the whole I shall the whole
project in developing the skeleton
structure within the authoring
environment we collected the slides so
we collect as many slides as we could
before hand their animations and videos
we started doing the compression but we
basically waited because we know that
speakers are going to change their
slides which often happens right before
the conference so we did most we did all
the compression afterwards and then we
created a chapter list for the present
for the slides at the conference we
captured the video
then we compress the video and then we
also created it we did that we created
chapter list so that we could
synchronize them so everything was done
in the authoring environment to
synchronize the chapter list and then we
delivered it to both DVD ROM and on the
web with our online streaming
application so let's begin with
authoring the authoring environment had
to be cross-platform it also had to be
robust it couldn't you know we didn't
want it to crash wanted to work on a
large number of machines we wanted to be
able to also create a really intuitive
interface that was really easy to use as
I showed you a three clicks basically
gets you anywhere in the in the player
and you can watch any presentation very
quickly we also wanted an authoring tool
that we could build before the
conference and have it all ready so that
all we had to do was compress the videos
synchronize them and put them into the
authoring environment and then very
importantly having a file naming system
something that you do in the
pre-production so makes your life really
really easy so the authoring platform we
chose is tribe works I shall they're
actually they're head offices not far
from here
and mainly you chose it because the
cross-platform work Mac Windows
seamlessly we can deliver on dvd-rom on
the web with very minimal changes the
only changes we had were the videos
themselves one is going to a QuickTime
streaming server with the web version
the other ones reading them off the DVD
as well tribe or ty'chell is really an
easy to use object-oriented environment
so that translated really fast
development times the whole interface
was developed in about two weeks the
authoring environment also allowed us to
do the synchronization because it
includes advanced controls of QuickTime
with the chapter track so we did all the
synchronizations between the
presentations using capture tracks so
how did we capture all of these chapter
lists well we did a lot of it at the
conference itself we captured the slide
timings right at the conference put it
in an Excel spreadsheet that had a macro
that that outputted formatted text file
ready for the chapped ready for
embedding into quicktime we also had to
then with the chapter list check the
timing there like verify that at all was
whether it was working properly that the
spelling of the the president of the the
slide titles was correct and that we
could add these chapter lists at the end
to quick time because we had to do all
of that before we could start
synchronizing them because we had
chapter list and both of them in both of
the PowerPoint and the video so this is
how we captured the content actually at
the conference we got the AV source
footage from from the AV crew at the
conference we used the Canopus advc
500 this was a analog to digital video
converter it actually goes both ways
digital to analog and analog to digital
has two outputs one firewire and two
firewire outputs that we could use one
went to a DB cam deck that was actually
our backup which we never had to use and
the other went to a fire store which
converted the video information and
stored it on our low c 500 gig hard
drive so this is where we actually had
two hard drives at the conferences and
in the two rooms and we were able to
easily able to capture all the
presentations in those two rooms as we
had a terabyte of storage and we only
can't we didn't fill up we didn't fill
it all up so after you have the content
you got to prepare it for compression we
had all these many of them were forced
for presentations per session we
recorded the whole session so we had to
think of what what video editing
software on t'do was the edit editing
the in and the out points we also wanted
to be able to remove the copyrighted
materials quite easily and we wanted to
use the functionality of the QuickTime
reference movies so what we use was
QuickTime Pro mainly logs cross-platform
it supported the different media types
video audio text for the chapter list
QuickTime VR which was great
flash which we didn't have to use but
there's so many things that you could do
with quick time and having the editing
capabilities right in the right in the
program was fantastic
so all we had to do is set the in and
out points and create a reference movie
script ability is really in key we
didn't take advantage of it as much as
we will be taking advantage of doing
scripts in QuickTime of course adding
the chapter trash we were able to remove
all the audio all of the audio and
copyrighted images and sounds all within
with bit QuickTime Pro and we use
QuickTime mainly because we've used
Sorenson video 3 in the past and we're
getting into using mpeg-4 and they work
they work flawlessly for us so QuickTime
was our solution well now we had to move
on to compressing was not Amal prepared
the contents all prepared but we had to
compress the content so we had to
determine what kind of compression
software we've used different ones in
the past but we wanted one that was
fairly simple to use again that worked
that we could come up with a workflow so
once we edit all the videos we can get
it into and start compressing them so we
wanted to be able to control the
settings for compression and do small
adjustments to the audio and the video
so the compression software we used was
so instant squeeze 3.1 why it was really
simple to use basic image adjustments
all we wanted to really do was crop D
under lace and adjust the gamma so that
it would look equally good on a PC and a
Mac with our as we were editing the
videos and saving them as QuickTime
reference movies we were dumping them
into our watch folder so once we had our
compression settings it was just turning
out the turning act our computers were
compressing for us in the video and of
course it output it to the two formats
that we the two compression codecs that
we wanted to really use was Sorenson
video 3 for the DVD ROM and mpeg-4 for
the online streaming application and one
final note we didn't actually have we
didn't it didn't crash the only time we
had a problem was when the power went
out
on the East Coast we were out for four
days and that was right in the middle of
our encoding but that was the only
problem that we actually had what
someone's in squeezed so it was really
robust for us for our purposes it's a
little bit about Sorenson video 3 Pro we
used it before in a previous project we
knew it fairly well work great on the
DVD ROM gave us really high quality
video as you could tell at the
conference very small file sizes and we
can optimize the compression settings
now it the fast compression times we
were able to achieve really good
compression times and like the example
here is the keynote which was 48 minutes
in length we compressed it in ninety
minutes on a dual 1 gigahertz g4 with 1
gig of ram and that was at a resolution
of 320 by 240 now with mpeg-4 for the
online streaming application we used it
because it works great with a QuickTime
streaming server really high quality and
low bandwidth I will show it show you
that later really excellent audio codec
also really fast compression times our
keynote which was 48 minutes compressed
in 60 minutes on a dual 1 gigahertz g4
now the frame sides a little bit small
I'm not trying to compare the two codecs
here I'm just trying to give you a point
of reference in terms of how long it
took us to compress compress the
compress all of the video and basically
at the end the video dvd-rom all of the
videos that we compress on the DVD ROM
took less than a week so it wasn't
really the bottleneck of the project now
back to the technology framework we went
through the authoring went through the
slides capturing them how we collected
the chapter list and the key is that we
synchronized everything on the chapter
list between the slides and the video so
now we're onto the delivery so we put it
onto the DVD ROM and then on to the to
the web so here are the differences the
DVD ROM has 140 demos and animations
it's on two disks it includes a booklet
so you can actually use it as a
reference to go through the to look for
the presentation it's higher quality the
video quality is better this video
quality is larger and it's smoother and
it's available for members and
non-members on the other hand the online
streaming application it's just one
interface which I'll show you and it's
free to all ACM and ACM SIGGRAPH members
okay so we'll go back to the demo on the
g5 and I'll load up the
let's get it
so this is the online streaming version
it checks the internet first see if it's
there
actually just paying a server and then
it will load up this version actually
doesn't have the login on the one on the
the net has a login so you have to be a
member and it won't let you in unless
you're a member so the nice feature
about the online streaming application
is the papers special sessions they're
all in one environment so you don't have
to change discs
okay here we go so this is all running
online right now here from the
conference so you have the keynote the
papers the courses the special sessions
it actually tells you at the bottom
select an event so if you click on the
keynote now it's downloading the in next
section it's tells you at the bottom
select a topic and you can click on the
keynote address and Anthony Lazenby and
it tells you select a presentation you
know it's the blue highlights as you go
through the process so we try to make
this as easy as possible alright so
let's press play to begin so this is
connecting to the QuickTime streaming
server at a CMC graph you notice the
video is smaller 240 by 180 but the
PowerPoint it's bit more compressed but
it's the same size so you still get to
see everything clearly and one great
feature is the chapter track still works
so you can jump through the presentation
just like on the disk administration now
the only difference is you don't get the
animations we weren't finished put that
much bandwidth issues really on onto
their server so all that streaming right
now is his presentation so you do lose
out on the animations but you get the
full PowerPoint PowerPoint presentation
feature I didn't show earlier you can
actually move through this presentation
to pause the video you can move forward
and backwards so if you want to
scrutinize a curtain of a certain
presentation or certain slide you can go
and just pause it and look at the
different slides that way so with this
interface we can also see the papers
which is really really handy and you'll
see that it'll load up over here
obviously it's not going to be as fast
as your internet connection it's going
to going to be gives you a little watch
and it'll load up the slides over here
I'll show the VEX again and you'll see
that there's no video or animations in
that
some presentations obviously take a
little longer to load as it is
downloading it from the internet now
it's connecting it to the stream I just
start by showing a few examples of what
we are able to achieve you can not check
the audio quality it's really good
that's really key you want to make sure
the audio quality is reducing that's
what your you're listening to image if
you can see the synchronization
everything is all functioning very well
you can adjust the volume here and you
can again go through the presentation
quite quickly so if you've seen the
presentation you're interested in
particular section you can go to that
area and it'll jump right to that area
it's really handy feature okay let's go
back to this slide
so what were the bottlenecks a lot of
people would have thought was the
compression eight hundred gigs down to
seven to eleven gigs how long that would
take well it didn't take that long once
we had edited all the videos didn't take
that long on the two machines that we
had dedicated for encoding what really
took a long time was developing the
chapter list and creating and then
synchronizing those slides with their
videos and making sure that the
synchronization was correct
also synchronizing the extra animations
with the slide there's all sorts of
issues related to that now the speaker
permissions forms that was also a
bottleneck because you're contacting the
speakers after they've already been
accepted to speak at the conference and
you know they're busy and they have to
sign a form fax it in they've upload
their slides you're asking them to do a
lot to do and sometimes it's hard to
contact them and when you're contacting
120 people it took a long time to get
through we still collected speaker
permissions long after the conference
was through mainly because we want to
include as many presentation as possible
on the DVD ROM and the online online
streaming application removing the
copyright copyrighted material so that
took a while because we had to go
through each presentation we knew on the
speaker permission form that they had
copyrighted issues but we had to develop
a way to kind of remove those remove
those images and sounds that we clean we
couldn't record or couldn't keep in the
presentation and of course testing and
troubleshooting that took a fair bit of
time to to go through to make sure it
ran on a number of platforms number of
different computers and make sure
everything was working correctly and
then of course the manufacturing of the
DVD ROM that took way too long we were
really disappointed in that so how are
we going to remove the bottlenecks for
2004 the last last year's conference the
the compression wasn't the wasn't a
bottleneck this year it's going to be
when you're dealing with 290
presentations as opposed to 115 and 250
to 300 hours so what we've come up with
were we were putting together a dual g5
network so that what should should
significantly reduce the compress
sometimes for the speaker permission
forms we've actually come up with an
online speaker data management system so
now speakers don't have to fax anything
in its all they're given they're sent an
email with it with the password and
username and authorization that
basically a digital signature and they
can do everything online they can give
us key words they can give us their
speaker profile or their picture and
their permission so it's a great system
that we've developed well we're in the
process of coming up with a way of
automating automating the chapter list
so we can significantly reduce the
amount of time it took to create all the
chapter lists and then finally where we
picked a new DVD manufacturer that'll
turn it around in ten days as opposed to
almost six weeks it's a little bit about
quality control the video quality and
the compression that we achieved here
would do because we use the best quality
that we have best quality audio feeds
and video feeds if you don't get if you
think you're going to be able to fix it
in post production you're wrong it's
just going to take too long sixty two
hours is too much video to go through so
you really want the best quality audio
and video you also don't want to do a
lot of editing you only want to do in
and out points basically when the
presentations start and when it finished
you're going to do other editing it's
going to you're going to run into a
that's another huge bottleneck and then
experiment with your compression
settings I can I can give you the
compression settings for this product
but every time we've done a conference
or project we always use different
settings because whatever is optimized
for one conference doesn't necessarily
work for another and the reason being is
SIGGRAPH everybody was at a podium
nobody was allowed to walk around and
the background there was no shadows
there was no issues like that it was
really well lit so we could use a
different different setting we just did
another project with ATI and we didn't
have the same kind of controls so we had
to use completely different compression
settings to still get a good quality
good quality video
so to summarize ATM SIGGRAPH 2003 was a
big success
we worked within a cm cigarettes
framework we created workflows that did
actually produce the project by by
October it was really well received by
the computer graphics community and it
did really well in sales so for 2004
this year is going to be a five disc DVD
ROM as opposed to a two disc there will
be an online streaming application but
we're moving from two rooms to ten rooms
and it's going to go up to about 250 to
300 hours of video so these are the
improvements for 2004 where we're
recording the whole conference we're
including all the live demos so we're
doing the demos a completely different
way this year we've got the online
speaker data management system already
it's working right now because the
conference is in August we're adding a
search engine to our product and we're
developing a new method for creating
chapter lists and this will inevitably
improve the synchronisation of the
slides and the video so to conclude I've
gone through our knowledge dissemination
solution for SIGGRAPH I've talked to you
about optimizing high quality audio and
video creating the intuitive interface
I've talked about a large presentation
window that we used instead of a smaller
one the chapter lists that we use at
four SIGGRAPH and now that we're working
with two thousand four or we're doing
this we're adding a search engine so our
approach I'll emphasizes is designed to
serve an audience who is interested in
detailed and in-depth information
retrieval
this means academics researchers and
developers Alicia
[Applause]
so there's some contact information for
you there on the screen if you're
interested to talk to these guys after
the conference but I'd also like to take
the opportunity to let you ask some
questions if you have them please come
up to there's mics in the middle here
and on the side if you have some
questions for these guys and I'll ask
gudren to come back up on the stage